Okay, so we are in CloudWatch Alarms,
so let's go and create an alarm.
So first of all, I'm going to create an EC2 instance
very quickly, and we're going to create
an alarm on top of the CPU utilization.
So we're going ahead and create an EC2 instance of t2 micro.
I will go quickly to preview and launch and then say,
yes, I have this.
So we don't need to keep it or anything like this,
we just want the instance to be launched.
And the idea is that we want to create an alarm that
will terminate the instance, if the CPU goes to 100%,
so let's create this alarm.
So we need to select a metric.
And so for this, we need to choose a metric.
So we need to go and find our EC2 instance.
So this is our instance ID, right here, and search for it.
And I'm maybe a little bit too quick, okay.
So let's wait for the instance to be launched.
I will go into EC2 per instance metric,
and then I will wait for it to be populating.
So it took about five minutes for some metrics to appear
in that cloud dashboard for my instance.
So now I can probably refresh this page and I will get the
chance to find the metrics I'm looking for.
So let me select a metric and then paste the instance
in perfect, I have it,
and I will go and find the CPU utilization of my instance.
So this is this metric right here.
Okay, well, select this metric.
As you can see, we have
the eight here and then we can choose a way to
compute this metric, so average, sum, maximum, and so on.
The period we want to evaluate this alarm on.
So five minutes is good because this metric gets populated
every five minutes, if we don't enable detailed monitoring.
Now we get some conditions in terms of the threshold.
So is it Static or is it an Anomaly detection?
Is it a greater than, equal than, and so on.
So I will say for example,
if you're a greater than 95%
for a long time, so for,
and here you can say, three out of three.
So that means that for 15 minutes, you're stuck at 95%,
then probably something is up with this machine.
And so in that case, I could choose a notification.
I could choose a Auto Scaling action.
I could choose an EC2 action, or in a systems manager
action, but I'm going to choose an EC2 action.
Okay, and it will say, hey, if you are in alarm, okay,
then just terminate this instance because maybe I know that
my application sometimes has a huge failure and the CPU
installation will be at a 95% or a 100%
for a very long time, And the only way to resolve this
is to just terminate the instance.
So I will choose this, and then click on next,
and say terminate,
EC2 on high CPU.
Click on next to verify everything, and we're good to go.
So now this alarm obviously does have insufficient data,
so we need to wait 15 minutes for it to be okay,
and it's not going to be triggered unless we make it so.
So, we could go into the EC2 instance and launch a way
to get the CPU very high for 15 minutes,
but this would be a very, very long,
or we can use the API call name,
Set alarm state, to really see what would happen if this
alarm went into the breach phase.
So let's have a look.
This is the history of the alarm, okay.
And what I'm going to do is that I'm going to set the alarm
to say, so I type AWS CloudWatch, set alarm states,
and we'll look at the API reference.
And so we need to do set alarm state the alarm name and the
state value and the state reason.
So we'll do, in here.
So AWS CloudWatch set alarm states,
and then we need to set multiple parameters.
So the alarm name is going to be this one,
then the alarm,
so the states value
is going to be alarm.
And the state reason, is going to be testing.
We press enter, and now this alarm,
if we refer to this page is now in the alarm state,
as you can see, it says in alarm.
And so the action is, when in alarm terminate the instance.
And so if you look at the history,
it says that the alarm updated from OK, to in alarm and
then an action was made and it's, successfully
executed the action to terminate my EC2 instance.
So if I go into my EC2 instances here, and I refresh,
as we can see is shutting down and is being terminated
because while there was an alarm that was triggered on top
of this EC2 instance,
and we did set up the alarm to do this specific action.
So that's it, I hope you liked it.
I hope this makes sense to you.
And I will see you in the next lecture.